# The Single Neuron Linear Regression Model

In this notebook we implement the single neuron model together with the gradient descent algorithm in order to solve the **linear regression problem**. For teaching purposes, this notebook will focus on single variable regression for a single species of flower in the readily available iris dataset.  

## Regression
Let $\mathcal{X}$ be the space of all possible feature vectors, let $\mathcal{Y}$ be the space of all possible corresponding labels for the feature vectors, and let $f:\mathcal{X} \rightarrow \mathcal{Y}$ be the optimal target function assigning labels to feature vectors in $\mathcal{Y}$. Next recall that in supervised machine learning we observe some subset of features and labels as shown in the figure below. 


In [regression](https://favtutor.com/blogs/types-of-regression), machine learning models are given labeled data $\mathcal{D} = \{(\mathbf{x}^1, y^1), \dots, (\mathbf{x}^N, y^N)\}$, where the feature vectors satisfy $\mathbf{x}^{(i)} \in \mathbb{R}$ and the target labels satify $y^{(i)} \in \mathbb{R}$. Thus, this supervised learning task seeks to predict real valued target labels. This is different from classification (such as the perceptron single neuron model) as the following figure suggests.

In this notebook we will focus on **linear regression**. This specific case of regression assumes that the *target values in $\mathcal{Y}$ are approximated by a linear function of the associated feature vectors*. That is, the optimal target function $f:\mathcal{X} \rightarrow \mathcal{Y}$ is assumed the be roughly a linear function. 

Many types of problems and data fall into this roughly linear relationship. For example, one could reasonably suspect that such a relationship exists when considering the iris dataset setosa species sepal length as feature measurements together with the iris dataset setosa species sepal width as targets. This can be verified by visualizing the data. Examine the figure generated by running the following code in the cell below.  
